.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" kaptain is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH KAPTAIN 1 "September 11, 2004"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins (default)
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kaptain \- Universal graphical front-end for command-line programs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kaptain
.RI [ options ]
.RI file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkaptain\fP reads the given file and builds a user-friendly dialog according to the grammar rules found in it.
.PP
See
.B info kaptain
for a detailed overview.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBkaptain\fP accepts the following options:

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V
Run in verbose mode.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version of program.

.TP
.B \-\-test
Run in test mode. This means that commands are not executed when a
button is pressed, only printed to the standard output.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-verbose
Report more information on processing the input file. Internal
representation of the grammar and the dialog tree is also printed. Use
this flag if Kaptain does not work as expected.

.TP
.B \-c <host:port>, \-\-client <host:port>
Establish communication channel as a client connecting to a server on
<host> listening on <port>.

.TP
.B \-s <port>, \-\-server <port>
Listen to the specified <port> and accept the first connection. This
will be used as a communication channel.

.TP
.B \-p <command>, \-\-pipe <command>
Start the given command and communicate with it on its standard input
and output. Don't forget to quote <command> if it contains spaces or
other metacharacters used by the shell.

.TP
.B \-\-stdio
Use standard input and output for communication. In this case you must
specify an input file, thus grammar script cannot be read from the
standard input when it is used as a communication channel.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-input
Instructs Kaptain not to process messages received on the input channel.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-output
If this flag is set, Kaptain will not send any messages on its output
channel.



.SH AUTHOR
Zsolt Ter\['e]k <terek@users.sourceforge.net>.
